Breaking change: IsTrimmable for netstandard libs (#36775)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/sdk/8.0/istrimmable-netstandard-libraries.md

---
title: "Breaking change: IsTrimmable warns when used with netstandard libraries"

> description: Learn about a breaking change in the .NE 8 SDK where netstandard libraries that specify IsTrimmable produce a new warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about a breaking change in the .NET 8 SDK where netstandard libraries that specify `IsTrimmable` produce a new warning.
```

ms.date: 08/21/2023
---
# IsTrimmable warns when used with netstandard libraries

Libraries that set `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>` with a `TargetFramework` that is any version of netstandard produce a warning that `IsTrimmable` is unsupported.

> Setting `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>true</EnableTrimAnalyzer>` in such a library produces the same warning.

Reviewer: I thought the warning is also issued when the library targets NetFX or old .NET Core TFMs, not just netstandard. I think it's OKish to keep the title simple, but the description should be precise - if it's still the case.

## Previous behavior

> Previously, `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>` would embed an assembly-level attribute `[assembly: AssemblyMetadata("IsTrimmable", "true")]` into the library, opting it into trimming when consumed in a trimmed app (even an app that uses `<TrimMode>partial</TrimMode>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, `<IsTrimmable>true</IsTrimmable>` would embed an assembly-level attribute `[assembly: AssemblyMetadata("IsTrimmable", "true")]` into the library. That attribute opted the assembly into trimming when consumed in a trimmed app (even an app that uses `<TrimMode>partial</TrimMode>`).
```

`<EnableTrimAnalyzer>true</EnableTrimAnalyzer>` would enable trim analysis for the library, using the netstandard reference assemblies corresponding to the library's `TargetFramework` even though the netstandard reference assemblies were not annotated for trimming.

## New behavior

> In the .NET 8 SDK, building a netstandard library with `<IsTrimmable>` or `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>` produces a warning that `<IsTrimmable>` is unsupported for the target framework, and does not otherwise change the build output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting in the .NET 8 SDK, building a netstandard library with `<IsTrimmable>` or `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>` produces a warning that `<IsTrimmable>` is unsupported for the target framework, and does not otherwise change the build output.
```

## Version introduced

.NET 8 RC 1

## Type of breaking change

This change is a [behavioral change](../../categories.md#behavioral-change).

## Reason for change

> Allowing the use of `<IsTrimmable>` or `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>` with netstandard meant that it was easy for library authors to opt into trimming, without being alerted about trim incompatibilities. Because the netstandard reference assemblies were not annotated for trimming, there would be no warnings about uses of framework APIs that are incompatible with trimming.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allowing the use of `<IsTrimmable>` or `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>` with netstandard meant that it was easy for library authors to opt into trimming, without being alerted about trim incompatibilities. Because the netstandard reference assemblies aren't annotated for trimming, there were no warnings about uses of framework APIs that are incompatible with trimming.
```

## Recommended action

> Avoid setting `<IsTrimmable>` or `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>` for libraries which target netstandard. Also avoid setting `<IsAotCompatible>`, which implies the former settings. Instead, multi-target the library to include the latest `TargetFramework`, and enable `<IsTrimmable>` only for the supported target frameworks. This will run the latest version of the trim analyzer, using trim compatibility annotations from the latest version of the framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid setting `<IsTrimmable>` or `<EnableTrimAnalyzer>` for libraries that target netstandard. Also avoid setting `<IsAotCompatible>`, which implies the former settings. Instead, multi-target the library to include the latest `TargetFramework`, and enable `<IsTrimmable>` only for the supported target frameworks. Setting `<IsTrimmable>` will run the latest version of the trim analyzer using trim-compatibility annotations from the latest version of the framework.
```
